MACAW

We are not defenders of nature, we are nature!

We are a living presence for life in the Land of Vital Blood: Abya Yala. We have decided to leak and sabotage extractivist companies and organizations that cause terricide, expropriation and looting of Mother Earth and its inhabitants. We also filter into institutional organizations of the States or at their service that under their legal form permanently attack the population to dispossess the peoples and continue enriching themselves above all else, thus conforming to true organized crime. Likewise, institutional organisms that, being part of the State, design the laws or appropriate the claims of the population so that it is useful only to them and their henchmen.

One of those states is Colombia. A country plagued by the multiple expressions of violence present since the western invasion of 1492, the subsequent "independence" and debt acquired by Creole governments to the United States. It is a nation that, today, is of interest to the global north both for its diverse wealth, and because it represents a strategic point for trade and control over Central and South America. For this reason, it is there where US military bases are located and it is one of the centers of cocaine trade and trafficking, highly linked to paramilitarism. All this has generated an internal conflict of violence for decades (and even centuries). Colombia is also its peoples (because it is also diverse in its population), some peoples tired of pain and so many tears; forgetful peoples, who forget and forgive and bet on the longed-for peace, despite having so much repeated history. Dialogues, signatures, peace agreements with armed movements and false promises have always ended in "massacres", displacements, exile, disappearances, rupture of the social fabric, extermination of opposition political parties (such as the Patriotic Union) and a great feeling of impotence and impunity. The peoples who continue to bet on a system that is servile and functional to the interests of the United States, the global north and its extractivist companies, drug trafficking and paramilitarism as the armed wing of their interests.
And it is in this oblivion and commitment to a "democratic and free system" that fails again and again, that this figure appears:

Attorney General's Office.
 
Born after the peace processes with the "April 19 Movement" (M19), one of the agreements was the creation of a Constituent Assembly. This was welcomed by different sectors of the Colombian people, this is how the "Constitution of 1991" was elaborated, and from there this figure of the judicial branch of the "Fiscalía General de la Nación" was born, replacing the National Directorate of Criminal Investigation. Where, as stated above, it was a proposal made by the Colombian people with the aim of generating true justice through the agility of a prosecutor's office capable of resolving and doing justice from family conflicts to the investigation and punishment of organized crime such as drug trafficking and paramilitarism and, likewise, investigate the corruption of other government institutions. All this without taking into account history, without taking into account that a corrupt system, historically obedient to all kinds of interests except the welfare of the people, will not change with the fact of having one more judicial figure. State crimes are not resolved by the state.
 
It should be clear that the criminal policy of the State begins in the offices of the Prosecutor's Office, being one of the most corrupt agencies in the country. All kinds of crimes pass through and are controlled: image laundering, evidence withholding, false trials, incriminations, drug trafficking and paramilitary networks, espionage, political persecution, murders, etc. These facts have already been denounced with their own names. Those involved and perpetrators range from the military, members of the state and drug traffickers, to businessmen and public entities. The facts have come to light, but nothing happens because the supposed "laws" handle them as they please. Nowhere in Colombian history has such perversity and impunity been seen.

It can be said that Luis Camilo Osorio is the one who puts the Prosecutor's Office at the service of paramilitarism. He handed over entire sections to friends of the paramilitaries. The most famous cases were Antioquia and Norte de Santander. This last strategy led to the seizure of Catatumbo by Salvatore Mancuso (currently on trial and extradited to the US) in order to export cocaine through the Gulf of Maracaibo. Practically, from then on, most of the corruption in Colombia went through the Prosecutor's Office. Hiring in the public sector, the Odebrech scandal, the attempts to put an end to all political opposition (by any means), lists of people who were given to paramilitaries to carry out selective assassinations, links with government entities from other countries (among them, the DEA) and a long list of dispossession of lands to indigenous people, Afro-descendants and peasants, are among the most lurid issues of this entity. In addition, with the huge amounts of money from drug trafficking, the "war against the guerrillas" was financed, which, in reality, was a war against the people. A complete order of terror commanded by parapoliticians such as Álvaro Uribe Vélez was established in the country. Through patronage networks, threats, disappearances, bribes, etc. and with the excuse of the "fight against the guerrillas", the entire political leadership of the Colombian right has been tainted by the stigma of paramilitarism and drug trafficking. Colombia is a narco-state supported by the Prosecutor's Office.

Despite the fact that all this is already public knowledge, we: GUACAMAYA, decided to once again expose these acts. We have delved into his archives, we have seen up close the horror of his actions and we will not let this be forgotten. We remember that we are the people of Abya Yala, that we defend life with our lives, that a sacred plant like the coca leaf should only be sacred and not just another object of consumption to satisfy the futile and superfluous needs of a world sick with whiteness, civilization and capital. The peoples of "Colombia" deserve more than being producers of all kinds of supplies for a sick and addicted global north. We know that most of the country's leaders, corrupt and contemptible even in their speech, come from a clear lineage. They are heirs to a white supremacy that has been ruling since supposed independence and even before. We know that only the peoples of the country will save ourselves, that no international organization will do anything to put an end to such a complex aberration. This is why we do it: to shed a little more light and expose, once again, all that infecting breed that has parasitized our dreams.
The Colombian Attorney General's Office, which was born in the midst of a dream of forgetfulness and faithful credibility to a system that is an enemy of the people, demonstrated time and time again, must have an end, an end.

This is a clear example and reason to act like Macaw. For our dead, for our ancestors, for the territory, for life, for the land, reparation and justice!
We break into their tech systems and hack. We infiltrate its entrails. In this way we seek reparation knowing that the damage caused to the earth and to people is irreparable.
We deliver this to the people of Colombia, so that we can decide what to do with it.
