MACAW



We are not defenders of nature, we are nature!





Five centuries (529 years) of genocide, terricide, looting and violations of the territory of Abya Yala. Five centuries of struggle and resistance. We have been alive for five hundred years, defending life with life itself. We have spirit and love, we dream of returning to clear days and following the paths in harmony and balance with our mother: the earth.



The so-called "Global North" with its civilizing project since 1492 and the creation of states obedient to North American imperialism, has turned Abya Yala into the great pantry of the misnamed natural resources. The United States with its military and political interventions, together with the neo-colonialism of extractivist companies, distributes the territory of Abya Yala as it pleases. It is their own governments that dictate laws and a whole system of genocidal networks that they themselves, sometimes behind closed doors and sometimes in front of the whole world, manage at will. A complete world dictatorship.



The so-called civilization implanted based on constant genocide and terricide to obtain "resources" is neither understandable nor fair. We understand life from the community, from the relationship with Mother Earth. For us, civilization is balance, harmony, life, health, peace. The accumulation of things in a few hands due to the murder of others does not make sense, nor does it make sense to allow this to continue. So, we understand that our task will be the defense of the territory, the water, the forests, the seas.



This is not a story from the past. The project of civilizing the earth, of domesticating its inhabitants and of making the territories great clinics to continue with this factory of death, is always current. We have suffered in our flesh the hardships caused by this model of life. For us, it is, in fact, a model of death. Wherever the feet of "progress" and "democracy" have stepped, wherever the hands of capital have touched the earth and its children, death has prevailed as a result. The territories in which we had lived for millennia in harmony have been reduced to mere "resources" from which to extract the so-called "riches" to continue feeding the whims of a few. Our Pachamama, mother from whom we come, has been contaminated, exhausted, extracted, plundered and, ultimately, violated. With her destruction has come our destruction. With "Nosotr@s" we say everything alive, from plants to animals and smaller beings. This "us" encompasses them. That is why we repeat that, together with the destruction of the earth, the decline of all of us has come.



By now, at this time, there have already been warnings that the earth can take no more. The ability to recover is getting less and less while death is getting more and more hungry for land. This project of progress and civilization has proven to be a complete disgrace. It is exhausting life as it passes through any site. The states of the so-called "Global North" no longer have spaces that do not have some trace of this misfortune: they have destroyed their forests and jungles, and the few that remain are becoming smaller every day. Your so-called "resources" are depleted. They have tried to maintain their false wealth at the cost of exploiting, committing genocide and murdering any form of life in other territories. Abya Yala, the misnamed America, is one of those territories from which they feed in a shameless, predatory and murderous way.



It is a disturbing and cynical hypocrisy that their own science warns them that they are on the wrong track. The so-called "global warming" is the fever in our home that, like a sick body, raises the internal temperature because it is resisting something harmful. The so-called "men of science" have warned their own friends that they are destroying too much, that the speed with which they are doing so is dooming even themselves. They don't even seem to listen to them, to their own "men of science" who fill their mouths with words like "ecocide", "loss of biodiversity", "One Health", etc.



We have been warning of this for centuries. Brothers and sisters from the north, center and south, we brothers and sisters stolen from other lands have seen for 480 years the passage and the result of death that follows civilization. No one wanted to listen to us. They have always tried to shut us up. First with the genocide (which is still happening today), then with the imposition of nations/states that do not represent us and, later, with pretensions to fix the problem that they themselves have created. Human rights commissions, welfare NGOs, cooperation missions and a long list of other things that say "watch over our well-being" are brought to our territories. These "solutions" that they bring us enlarge the problem because they cover it up, put a veil on it and it is more complex.
